Documentation for simple Lua bindings to Slang i/o library.
 
 
slang.init()
initialize slang i/o library, sets up the terminal.  no options.
 
slang.reset()
ends slang processing, closes the terminal.
 
slang.mousemode(mode, force)
enables mouse input.  this is undocumented in slang.  presumably mode=1, force=1.
when a mouse button is clicked in the terminal, slang.getinput() will return "mouse", buttonmode, x, y.
buttonmode is 0/1/2 for left/middle/right mouse buttons. x,y are the terminal column,row.
 
slang.getinput(wait)
get key/mouse input.  returns -1 if no input is waiting.
takes wait time paramater, 1/10's of a second to wait before returning if no input is available.
wait time defaults to 0.
 
slang.dimensions()
returns terminal size in rows,columns (y,x).
 
slang.gotorc(row,column)
position cursor at row,column.
 
slang.getrc(row,column)
get cursor position: r,c
 
slang.setcolor(c)
set output color to c = fg+bg*16
color indices already setup
use getcolor(colorForeground,colorBackground) with color names to get a code to pass to setcolor.
 
slang.writechar(c)
output a character at the cursor position.  advances the cursor position by one column.
argument is the character's integer ascii code or first character of a string.
eg: writechar(32), or writechar(' '), or writechar('Hello') - outputs only the H
 
slang.writestring(s)
output a string at the cursor position, and advances the cursor position to the end of the string.
no escape codes are processed (newline, tab, etc).
 
slang.refresh()
update the physical terminal display to match the virtual display buffer.
 
slang.clear()
clears the terminal using the current color.
 
slang.resize()
reinitializes the terminal to update dimensions if it has been changed.
call this manually when you resize the terminal window, then call slang.dimensions() to get the new size.
 
slang.showcursor(visibility)
enables or disables the visual terminal cursor.
 
slang.flushinput()
removes all pending input.